I'm going to do a quick talk through
light writing which is something that a
lot of people are interested in but you
basically did you use a long exposure on
your image it's capturing light the
whole time
use a light like the one that I'm using
is this it's a pen light don't use the
laser a laser can damage the center of
the camera just like how people they
don't point your camera at the Sun
because it'll damage the sensor same
sort of thing with a laser so just use
one that's it's got like a light on the
end you can use a torch as well but a
torch is obviously a very big light it
likes a lot of the area around it as
well says noise the best the picture is
being taken for a long amount of time
and it's processing all the light that's
that's happening in that image if you
ever see the ones that I've done of or
that anyone's done of cars and traffic
moving along and you see their
headlights look like a line of light
movement they don't look like headlights
moving along bit by bit you see it as
one long streak that's basically because
the camera is just taking in that light
constantly it's the same sort of thing
with this except we're telling it what
light to take in we're only giving it
one source of light to look from so what
I'm in I'm in the manual mode so if
we've got the camera so on to manual and
as you can see the screen is very very
bright because I've got it set for for
light writing so if you can't see this
very well it's it looks dark because the
screen so bright the cameras focusing on
it I've got the shutter speed to 15
seconds that's the slowest shutter speed
that the camera let you do I've got my
aperture all the way down and I've got
my eye on so I can't control my ISO
because my shutter speed is all the way
down it doesn't let you do now a lot of
people have been asking about something
called CD HK which is it sounds for
Canon hack development kit and what it
does is you install it on your camera
and it unlocks loads of other options
that you can use the reason I haven't
used it yet is because I quite like to
do the rest of the videos that I was
planning to do with the settings that
everyone will get on the camera because
not everyone is going to install that
and I don't really think it's fair to
so options that not everyone can use so
I think once I've done everything that I
want to do on their basic set up I will
have a guy installing that hack kit
because the feedback is really good on
it and it seems like something that
would be really worthwhile because what
it would do is it let you do a longer
shutter speed and it's a unlocks a lot
of different things so I'll let you know
if I decide to do that or won't probably
make a video on it so I've got it on a
ten-second timer a reason for that it
gives me time to walk away from the
camera and be ready for it to start
taking the picture before I start my
light writing so there's two ways that
you can do like writing you can write or
draw whatever you want to write or draw
as if you're looking at it so you write
the text from left to right as you
normally would and then you can flip
that image in Photoshop or whatever
program you're using or you can have a
go at writing the words backwards I'm
kind of used to try and light writing so
I'm used to writing their letters
backwards I do get it wrong occasionally
everyone will
so I'm just in the living room I've I've
got big space because if you're too
close to the camera you tend to just
sort of shine too much on the on the
lens not really having the desired
effect because you've got light
spreading everywhere whereas if you're
standing quite far back the light's not
spreading too much further and the
camera can focus on the light a bit
easier also you need to take your
filters off if you've got a filter on
your camera you need to take it off for
this because otherwise the light shines
onto the filter before it gets to the
lens and you kind of get the the filter
then reflects the lens I'll show you a
picture of it here
I've got my camera set on a gorilla pod
now I don't know if you've ever seen
these they basically they have legs that
can bend this throughput is far too
light for the for the EMS x40 but it's
the only one I've got
and all I really need it to do is to
allow me to change the angle of the
camera if I need to so I'm just seeing
it on the TV here I've got the screen
flipped out it means that I can use the
controls from this way around I don't
have to stand behind the TV to use it
what I'm going to do I'm going to have a
go at writing in my channel name so fat
dragon 100 and you can witness the
atrocity don't forget if your cat camera
goes into power-save it will switch off
that self timer so you need to remember
to put it back on again so I'm going to
switch on the camera because it is
limited to 15 seconds you do have to be
quite quick and fat dragon 100 is not a
small thing to write when you're on a 15
second limit but I'm going to try my
best and show you the result what I'm
going to do I'm going to press the
button it would do a 10-second countdown
on the timer in which time I'm going to
turn the camera and switch the light off
so let's hope that ia move fast enough
so I'm just going to make sure that the
timer is set so I've just set the self
time into 10 seconds and if I go
so hopefully you could see that being
written I don't know how it's going to
come out yet I think I did the end
backwards so it takes a little while to
process it if I just play back the
result
so you can see the image here I went a
little bit of off-center it's not as
blue as it looks on this camera I'll put
the image on here so obviously where I'm
using a light that's quite bright it's
starting to light up the room so you
will see the room you have to be in a
pretty featureless room in order to do
this without seeing the rest of the room
but quite often people like to have that
sort of image I'm going to try and do a
better version of this so you can see it
in its glory and then I'll do a couple
of other images so you can see the sort
of thing that like writing can do and as
I said I would like to try the the hack
Canon hack development kit so that I can
do it with a longer shutter speed but at
the moment I think it's important that
people can learn how to do these things
without having all these extra features
that they may not have access to so
that's hard to do light writing is it's
great fun the exciting thing is you
don't know the result until that picture
previews back so I hope you guys have
fun doing it and any questions send them
in say
you